Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.  a formal language, which comprises a set of instructions that produce various kinds of output.




What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.Contain JRE , Comelier, Debugger,Applet Demos
JRE:is a set of software tools for development of Java applications.
Comepiler:is a special program that processes statements written in a particular programming language and turns them into machine language or "code" that a computer's processor uses.
Debugger: s a simple command-line debugger for Java classes.
Applet Demos: is a Java program that can be embedded into a web page. It runs inside the web browser and works at client side.




What is IDE?
A. Integrated Development Environment



What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. IntellijIDEA, Eclipse,NetBeans,Visual Studios.



Explain the entire java life cycle.
what is class? Is like an blueprint which object is created from.
What is object? A basic unit of Object Oriented Programming and represents the real life entities
What is the entry point of an application?
Why main is static? It allows main() to be called without having to instantiate a particular instance of the class.
Which class is the superclass of all classes? Object is the superclass of all.
What is difference between path and classpath variables?  Classpath variable is used to set the path for java classes and path variable is used to set the path for all Java software tools like javac.exe, java.exe, javadoc.exe.
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class? the implementation of both is different but contains similar words.
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
what is Access Specifier? Control the visibility of classes,variables,methods
What is OOP ? Object Oriented Programming, Define each feature of java OOP
Encapsulation:the practice of keeping fields within a class private, then providing access to them via public method
Inheritance: lets programmers create new classes that share some of the attributes of existing classes
Polymorphism : Has many forms and lets programmers use the same word to mean different things in different contexts
Abstract: using simple things to represent complexity
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default? java.lang gets imported and Java package will organizes Java classes into namespaces, providing a unique namespace for each type it contains.
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far. API is a communication protocol and  We used java virtual machine, JVM
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not? No it doesn't because it creates confusion and complexity.
What is method overloading and when it happens? its a class to have more than one method having the same name, if their argument lists are different.
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it. : an unwanted or unexpected event, which occurs during the execution of a program i.e at run time, that disrupts the normal flow of the program’s instructions. You can handle it by using try and Catch.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ? static is a non-access modifier ,indicates that the particular member belongs to a type itself, rather than to an instance of that type.
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods? Is an non-access modifier applicable only to a variable, a method or a class which define an entity that can only be assigned once. Once a final variable has been assigned, it always contains the same value.
What is final, finally and finalize? Final : Is an non-access modifier applicable only to a variable, Finally:is a block that is used to execute important code such as closing connection, Finalize: used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.
What is a constructor ? An constructor it resembles an instance method in java but it's not a method as it doesn't have a return type
Can we have multiple constructors in a class? yes if parameters not same
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
What is "this" keyword in java ?
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
What is JVM stand for ? Java Virtual Machine
Is JVM platform independent?
What version of java are you using? java 8
What is JAR stand for ? Java ARchive
What is the difference between JDK and JVM? JDK is for development purpose where JVM provides platform independence.
What is the difference between JVM and JRE? JVM provides platform independence and JRE is for running the java programs.
What is compile time and run time? Compile-time is the instance where the code you entered is converted to executable while Run-time is the instance where the executable is running
What is heap?  is the runtime data area from which memory for all class instances and arrays is allocated. The heap is created on virtual machine start-up.
How java manage it's memory? it automatically stores in management system (known as a garbage collector); objects are never explicitly dislocated.
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder? String is immutable whereas StringBuffer and StringBuider are mutable classes. StringBuffer is thread safe and synchronized whereas StringBuilder is not.
What is Singleton class? Is simply a class that is instantiated exactly once in the Java Virtual Machine. It is used to provide global point of access to the object.
What is Serialization and Deserialization? is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream. Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory
when to use transient variable in java?
What is Enum? A special Java type used to define collections of constants.
Difference between while and do..while loop? While loop executes the code block only if the condition is True. In Java Do While loop, condition is tested at the end of the loop so Do While executes the statements in the code block at least once even if the condition Fails.
What is Iterator?  A collection framework. It allows us to traverse the collection, access the data element and remove the data elements of the collection.
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









