Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A.so we can manage large amounts of data efficiently.


What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures? Data insertion.
                                                                                    Data update.
                                                                                    Data retrieval.
List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively? Compiler Design,
                                                                     Operating System,
                                                                     Database Management System,
                                                                     Statistical analysis package
what is an Array? Array is a collection of similar type of elements which have a contiguous memory location.
what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList? In Java is that Array is a fixed length data structure while ArrayList is a variable length Collection class.
what is LinkedList? A linear collection of data elements, whose order is not given by their physical placement in memory.
How is an Array different from Linked List? Due to their structures so Arrays are index based data structure where each element associated with an index,While a linked list is a data structure which contains a sequence of the elements
what is queue? it represents a data structure designed to have elements inserted at the end of the queue, and elements removed from the beginning of the queue.
what is stack? is a Lifo data structure.
what is FIFO and LIFO? FIFO is an abbreviation for first in, first out. It is a method for handling data structures where the first element is processed first and the newest element is processed and Lifo is handling data structures where the last element is processed first and the first element
what is the order of complexity? measures the time taken for running an algorithm.
what is the best case to search an element from an array? Linear search for a unsorted array where no specific pattern is given.
what is the worst case to search an element from an array? is the function defined by the maximum number of steps taken on any instance of size
what is tree in data structure? is a widely used abstract data type —or data structure implementing this ADT—that simulates a hierarchical tree structure.
what is graph in data structure? an abstract data type that is meant to implement the undirected graph and directed graph concepts from mathematics.
what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap? HashMap allows one null key and multiple null values and Hashtable doesn't allow any null key or value
What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model. : RDBMS = Array (i.e. Array of structures)
                                                                                                                          Network data model = Graph
                                                                                                                          Hierarchical data model = Trees

How HashMap works in java? A. Due to the fact Hashmap works through the principle of it,simply assign a code to attribute using an algorithm to enable an retrieval.
What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs? it indicate that we are trying to access array element with an illegal index. This exception is thrown when the index is either negative or greater than or equal to the size and this occurs when we try to access an element of an array, with an index that is negative or more than the size
What are the different ways of copying an array into another array? This can be done Manually or System.arraycopy() whichh it  is another method. Also Object.clone.
What is difference between an array and a linked list? Arrays are index based data structure where each element associated with an index. On the other hand, Linked list relies on references where each node consists of the data and the references.
What is DFS and BFS?  The breadth first search (BFS) and the depth first search (DFS) are the two algorithms used for traversing and searching a node in a graph. They can also be used to find out whether a node is reachable from a given node or not.
What is Recursion? A method of solving a problem where the solution depends on solutions to smaller instances of the same problem.
What are linear and non linear data Structures? 
What is Big-(O)-notation? it describe the performance or complexity of an algorithm.
 Linear and Heap sort

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


